*This project has been created as part of the 42 curriculum by <cvillene\>*

# Call Me Maybe

## Description
Call Me Maybe is a project on function calling using a given LLM. Function calling is a tool that translates natural language into structured function calls in JSON format.
With prompt like this: "What is the sum of 1 and 2 ?", the program should return the necessary function name and argument(s) to resolve this problem.
To ensure that the LLM output a correct JSON format with the right function and the right parameters, we were asked to use **Constrained Decoding**.
### Example
```bash
{
    "prompt": "What is the sum of 1 and 2 ?",
    "parameters":
    {
        "a": 1.0,
        "b": 2.0
    }
}
```

## Instructions
### Install dependencies
```bash
make install
```
### Run
```bash
make run
```
### Run in debug mode
```bash
make debug
```
### Clean temporary files
```bash
make clean
```
### Lint (flake8 and mypy)
```bash
make lint
```
or
```bash
make lint-strict
```

## Algorithm explanation
Constrained decoding was used to force the LLM to output the right functions name and parameters. The main approach was to narrow down the list of potential candidates for a good output using parsing.
Each token generated by the LLM was evaluated by several conditions adapted to the prompt and/or the function name. If the token was inadapted, its logit (probability) was set to -inf, then remaining token with the highest probability was choose to be part of the output. The generation of token was stoped when the LLM generated one of the potential candidates, selected in advance using parsing.

## Design decisions
The code is divided into four classes:
- **InputParser:** parse the function definitions file and the prompt tests file
- **PipelineManager:** initialize a *GenerationPipeline* for each prompt and save the output (in dict format) in a JSON file.
- **GenerationPipeline:** Execute the LLM pipeline (tokenization, logit processing) then use constrained decoding on each token before the token selection step. The output is a dictionnary variable containing the prompt, the function name and its arguments.
- **ConstrainingDecoder:** set the invalid tokens to -inf using several candidates list make with parsing.

## Performance analysis
- A dozen of prompt can be treated in 2-3min, but it depend of the prompt (number or string arguments)
- The accuracy if pretty high

## Challenges faces
The difficult part of this project was to determine how make the LLM output the right argument. It was solve to significantly restricting the possible output.

## Testing strategy
This implementation has been validated with a lot a prompt (more and less ambigous) generated by AI.

## Example usage
- In first, you must have a functions definition JSON file and a function calling tests JSON file. The files by default are used if no other are specified:
```bash
data
└── input
    ├── function_calling_tests.json
    └── functions_definition.json
```
- Install dependencies
```bash
make install
```
- To run the program, you can use the Makefile:
```bash
make run
```
- Or use python3 and (optionally) specified your input/output files:
```
uv run python3 -m src
--functions_definition data/input/functions_definition.json
--input data/input/function_calling_tests.json
--output data/output/function_calls.json
```

## Resources
- Documentation on constrained decoding
- Documentation on regular expression
- AI was used to understand how constrained decoding could make the LLM output value (function name and parameters) adapted to the prompt.